---
title: "Migration of sevDesk Frontend - Part I"
date: 2023-04-17T08:43:55+02:00
featured_image: /img/17042023-angular-react.png
draft: true
---

sevDesk has been a cloud solution from the beginning. It was developed as a single page application based on an older version of Angular and has evolved into a large project with many external dependencies.

Since we need to upgrade to a current Angular version to get security updates again, it is necessary to modernize the entire frontend to a current framework or library. For this, Angular in a current version, React.js and Vue.js come into consideration due to the large community.

## Frontend library - the decision

At the beginning, it was evaluated whether a migration from oder Angular to a current Angular version is possible. Since this evaluation showed that an update to a current version is like a complete rewrite of the frontend in terms of time, other frameworks and libraries were also evaluated.

The top priority is the efficient further development of our frontend for our customers, both in terms of new features and in the optimization of existing functionalities. To achieve this, it is necessary to ensure a good dev-experience during the whole development process. In order to meet these requirements, a high degree of flexibility with the simplest possible handling is necessary.

React convinced us in all areas, both the large community as well as the easy handling with many degrees of freedom are of great importance for a good development experience. Furthermore, the performance of React generated by the Shadow DOM convinced us and we will rely on React.js for our new frontend.

With the help of typescript, we ensure that communication between components takes place via defined interfaces, reducing the likelihood of runtime errors.

## Migration strategy

In order to modernize our old sevDesk frontend using React.js, the entire user interface of our application needs to be rewritten. The interface has grown and grown over the past few years and has now been under development for more than 5 years. Currently, the frontend alone has more than 200,000 lines of code.

When migrating to a new technology, our focus is on the following points:

- early provision of new features by customers
- high DevExperience for the development of new features
- high test coverage of use cases to reduce bugs
- fastest possible reduction of dependencies to obsolete frameworks and libraries

In the following, three variants for migration are compared to better understand the approaches and our decision for the future of sevChair.

Wait a minute - sevChair? Yes exactly, in front of a table there is usually a chair :)

In the next post, you'll learn more about different migration strategies....

Max (Frontend Engineer)
